>> Could some alien abduction
encounters actually be lucid
dreams?
The latest research on the
phenomenon in a new report out
of Russia, this is "Gaia News."
Are some instances of alien
encounters and abductions
actually just lucid dreams?
That's what researchers at the
Phase Research Center in Russia
sought to find out in a new
study recently published
in the "International
Journal of Dream Research."
A lucid dream is a
dream where the person
knows they are dreaming while
they are still in the dream.
In the study, 152 volunteers
and experienced lucid dreamers
were prompted to
experience aliens and UFOs
in their lucid dream.
Of those, 75% had alien and UFO
encounters in a lucid dream.
61% said they had encountered
alien like creatures.
And 28% said they
encountered UFOs.
For lead researcher and founder
of the Phase Research Center,
there was a personal
connection to this study.
>> It happened more
than 20 years ago.
I believed I experienced a
typical alien abduction story.
I was abducted.
It happened upon awaking.
With sleep paralysis, with a lot
of fear, levitating, and so on.
And I believed in
this for two years.
But then I started to practice
lucid dreams and out of body
travels.
And it helped me to understand
that all the time I was
experiencing the same thing.
And aliens were just in my mind.
>> Despite learning his alien
abduction experience was,
in his opinion, a lucid dream,
Michael does believe there is
extraterrestrial
life in the universe.
>> I think that our universe is
so big that there are numerous,
maybe endless amounts
of civilizations.
And I believe that
there are aliens.
But when we see
them upon awaking,
or before falling asleep,
during relaxation, most likely
these stories are
about our brain.
>> What was the most significant
discovery you made from this
study?
>> In our study,
from 152 volunteers,
75% of them were able to
experience alien abduction
or encounter with
a UFO or aliens.
And most interesting is
that 20% of these stories
were very similar to
reality, and the people,
in theory, mixed
it up with reality.
>> If the findings of
this study are true,
how do we explain regular
people who encounter aliens
spontaneously without
prompting in their dreams?
>> Well, recall my situation.
And the first fears
that I thought about
was aliens, because
I read stories
how it happens to other people.
I watched movies.
For this reason, people
wake up, for example, they
experience sleep paralysis.
They don't know what's
going on to them.
And they recall all these
stories from movies,
from books, and
lucid dreaming space
emulates their expectations.
For this reason, for example,
if you don't believe in aliens,
but you are a very religious
person, you may see angels.
>> Michael is quick to point
out that this study accounts
for alien abduction experiences
only when lucid dreaming.
>> So our study refers just
for specific stories when alien
abduction happens upon
awaking and falling asleep.
Me personally, I believe
that our universe is endless,
and maybe there's endless
amounts of civilizations.
If we exist, why other creatures
could not exist right now?
And maybe there are billions
of civilizations or millions
of them.
>> This study may shed light
on why so many people around
the world believe they have had
alien abduction experiences,
but does not explain them
when people are awake.
To paraphrase Michael
Raduga, he says
he believes in aliens, just
not when we are asleep.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.